>> ThePrimeagen: Okay, so let's go.
I'm just gonna show you
a couple cool things about Vim,
things that are a little bit different
that maybe you just don't know about.
First off, motions are pretty darm cool.
It just kind of give you quick just
breakdown of all the fun stuff.
So I'm just gonna put in a bunch
of text around here, right?
There we go, fantastic and
do some of that, and then I'm gonna go,
lspStop, because you probably
don't want to see all that.
Okay, so we have a bunch of we
have a bunch of text right here.
So obviously, j, if you haven't seen h and
l go back forth.
l goes one direction, h goes the other
one j, goes down, k goes up.
You've seen those, w jumps by word, right?
So it's pretty easy.
So if you had a bunch of spaces in here,
w would jump by word, b goes backwards.
But those are all basic,
no movements of them.
F will jump to the first
occurrence of that character.
So f opens parenthesis will jump to it.
Then I can do, there's no more of those.
Let's go F open bracket.
Then I can do something semicolon, and
we'll jump to the next occurrence
common will jump back.
So you can kind of jump through
the list on the horizontal side,
F or T will jump backwards.
T jumps up to, but not including.
So this is some cool things, but that's
not what makes vim pretty cool, right?
That's some basic motions, right?
What makes it really good is that.
You combine motions with operators.
So d is an operator d
means I'm gonna delete,
d down in the very bottom right here
means I'm in operator pending mode.
It's now operator delete
now I can do something.
So I can go f, opening, what's it called,
opening parentheses, and
it's gonna delete from my key up to and
including the opening parentheses.
So you can start seeing, hopefully,
that this has a lot of power to it.
You can start really moving around.
You can combine them.
So I can go d, j, so
I deleted my current line plus one below.
I can go 3j and jump three down.
That's why, if you look over here,
my numbering is so weird.
I have the number of the line that I'm on.
And plus relative line numbers either way.
So if I wanna go down to this one
right way down here, I'd go 8j and
jump right to it.
If I wanna delete from here
all the way up to here,
I'd go d11k delete 11 lines up, right?
You start getting kind of these
ideas of combining things.
c is delete except for
it goes into insert mode.
So ct opening parenthesis.
I'm now deleted all the way up to it,
but I'm in insert mode, so
now I can just type.
So okay,
that's where those are some fun things but
then there's even better operators.
Which makes it more fun is
that you got AP and IP.
So if I go v for visual mode,
which highlights, and then I go around
paragraph, it will highlight
the section around the paragraph.
That's pretty nice.
So that means I can also dap.
You can dap on the haters.
I can delete around
the paragraph really easily.
So a paragraph's any,
no white space continuous code.
So dap will delete that.
dip will delete it, but
not the new lines below it.
And so there's a lot of fun
things you can do with that.
You can also to do all the other things.
I can yip, I can yap it just a standard
Twitter user, I can just yap it and
that will put it onto my paste buffer.
And so now I can paste it all I want.
The things about Vim
that also make it unique,
as long as you separate out your
system clipboard plus your pasting,
I can have something that is on my paste
buffer, so I can just press p to paste it.
And that's pretty nice, right?
But I can also have
whatever's on my clipboard.
So if I go Ctrl+C or Ctrl+V, that's
still from those lines I had earlier.
So I have the things I can copy on the
outside of my editor, say, web addresses,
whatever, and then the things
I'm copying inside my editor.
They're very different kind
of distinct things, so
it's a little different experience.
And so there's the basic crash
course Course, on motions, just so
everybody knows them all.
There's, lots and
lots and lots of motions.
You can do a lot of really
weird things gUIW, all right?
g, there you go.
IW is really fun.
So that's inside word viw will highlight
the words you're on if there's periods and
other stuff.
So say you're in a function, or
you're in some sort of C++ or
you use a lot of colons.
If I go viw, it only highlights up to
one of those special characters, but
viW, highlights up to and
beyond only to the white spaces.
So that means I can yiW and
yank that whole thing.
Now things get even better is that
you can remap all of your stuff too.
So if I go leader, which for
me is space and then I go, yiW.
That just did a special operation.
That put it onto my clipboard, or
should have put it onto my clipboard.
There we go, so my clipboard now,
I just didn't do it in time.
It just put it a space bar but
there you go.
So now you can even do things that,
which I think is super cool,
is the ability to remap Operations
to actually be different.
So if I go this, if I just go capital,
let's see what's it called?
Go space y you'll notice that it
remapped it to double quotes plus y,
which is a way that you go
to the system clipboard.
So it's called the unnamed plus
register or whatever it's called.
So, it's I've remapped space
y into a special area.
And now I can just do a motion.
fh and that just copied into my clipboard
up to the h and including the h.
So you can get really kind of adventurous
with all of this, but it gets even better.
I can delete inside, see that string?
Hello from prime.
I can go see ci"".
I've just jumped to the upcoming string
deleted all the contents out of it, and
now I'm in an insert mode and
I can type, because I used c.
You can do the same thing, di() will
delete everything within the parentheses.
If you had two sets of parentheses,
you could technically go d2i(), d2i that.
It'll delete both sets of parentheses,
which is kind of,
now you're getting really
fancy footwork there.
I never do that kind of stuff but
you can get pretty fancy with all that.
And so
those are all the compound fund operators.
There you go.
I just want to give you
a quick little understanding that once
you get really good at manipulating text,
you can do quite a bit.
And it gets pretty dang fun.
One thing that I just think it's fun,
which maybe that's kind of silly of
me to think programming can be fun.
But something that I do all the time,
that I just really doing,
is if I need to copy this function,
Shift+V for highlight line,
f4 to the squarely brace percent sign
to go down, y to yank it, right?
And so you just do that, and
it just feels fun to do, right?
I can just yeah, and it just feels
good to go through these motions, and
then all sudden you start doing them.
They're like combos,
plane some sort of street Fighter game,
Mortal Kombat, and you're just into it.
It's just a lot of fun.
I don't know, it just gets me
all addicted and happy about it.
And so there you go.
So I wanted to show you that.
So there you go.
There's some motions,
there's some other quick things or
cool things that I think
are just really good.
Let's go into a bigger project.
Let's go into a project called caleb,
I'm making the game that uses
Vim motions as a platformer.
I know sounds really crazy, right?
And so it's still a platformer, except for
use of emotions, you get the idea.
So if I jump into here, and this is not
this is the other one dev and there we go.
Okay, we're gonna open up
the proper version right here.
There you go there's my proper
one if I say I search for
I don't know state ca S state.
It'll show me a whole bunch
of occurrences of them.
This is just your standard fuzzy
find you have this in VS code and
all this one thing that I think
is super cool about them and
I didn't know about this for years is
something called a quick fix list.
A quick fix list is all
of those locations,
and you can bunch of different ways
you can create a quick fix list, but
from search results, I can put all
of those locations into this list.
And so now I have this list.
It doesn't have to be there.
It can go that, but I can navigate that
list, and they'll show me every single
occurrence of that, and
I can walk through each one of them.
So you can see I'm on 14 out of 390 and so
I can just walk through all of them and
see them.
You can do operations over
the top of a quick fix list.
Maybe I wanna go quick fix list?
Do I want to replace everything
that says state with StateFoo?
And now it's gonna go through and
do all of them.
If I wanted to, I press q to stop it,
but you could do that.
You could also do g, and there you go and
then fantastic just highlight
does everything awesome.
And now we have StateFoo
through everywhere.
That'd be really bad.
So if I were to at this point hit Save,
that would probably not be a very good
experience, because I just changed
everything to StateFoo throughout my
entire project that had the word S, state.
But quick fix lists are Pretty cool
because if you are looking for a pattern,
something you need to jump on,
that's not a symbol, right?
This is not for your lsp, this is for
symbols that you just can't quite put on.
You can do this and
then hop through them as actual points.
If you had test breaking and
you wanna take your stack trace,
you could theoretically take a stack
trace, pump it into a quick fix list and
walk those points as well.
You can do a lot of these kind of fun and
clever operations really quickly with it.
I'm gonna quit this really quickly
quit all bang there we go.
All right, so they're very good.
They also work really good when it
comes to your, what's it called?
Your lsp so
you can take every lsp reference.
And put it onto a quick fix list and then
walk them, which is really nice to have,
because sometimes you don't
want to go back to that.
You just wanna be doing
something in this file.
Then you can go to the next one,
then you can go to the next one, and
it shows you every single version of where
this thing exists throughout your program.
So it's really good.
Quick fix lists are just,
absolutely incredible,
because you can just do so much with them.
You can get harpoon also for
VS code, I think harpoon is great.
If you don't use harpoon,
do you use harpoon?
>> Speaker 2: No.
>> ThePrimeagen: You hurt my feelings.
So harpoon, effectively,
all it is sticky files.
You choose the file you want, and
then that will become a sticky files.
I have three sticky files right now
in this project, those three so
I can just swap between them with one
press thing, because I always have,
I often find myself editing one file.
And then I'll edit one other file, and
I just swap back before
those things all the time.
And I really hate this thing
where you have to go input, okay,
edit this one, okay?
And okay, that one,
okay, I need to go back.
And then you keep on doing this thing
where you're constantly fuzzy fighting
between two or
three files over and over again.
So I just got tired and just wrote
my own plugin just to do it for me.
So I just never have to
think about that again.
VS code has a similar thing, just ways to
improve your life is a really good move.
Or if you find yourself just doing
the same thing over and over again,
just don't live your life that.
Don't, you don't want that.
Trust me, you don't want that.
There's one little fun thing that I just
ran into just recently that I thought was
super cool.
So we're gonna do this really quickly,
which is gonna be aoc-elixer.
And this is probably a weird one.
I think some people might
know where this is going.
But for advent of code this year,
if you don't know what advent of code is,
effectively think Leak code Christmas,
right?
That's all it is.
It's an advent calendar with
leak code style problems, but
they tend to be a lot more fun that you
have to solve on a daily basis, okay?
And so
this year's day three had this problem.
Effectively, what it was is that
you had to decipher this input and
perform all the multiplication so
anything that did, mul.
Opening parenthesis, no spaces,
up to three digits, comma, three digits,
closing parenthesis, that's it.
You have to take that and
multiply that together.
And then, this one would be
dropped because it has brackets.
This one would be good because it doesn't.
This one would be dropped
because it's closing brackets.
This one would be executed, and
this one would be executed.
And the fun part about it is that you can
actually solve all of this using Vim as
the means in which you can solve it as
opposed to actually writing a program.
You don't even have to write a program to
solve this because you can actually solve
this also with sed, which is kind of fun.
So I can do something this where
I can take every single line and
I could look for say everything
that says the word mul, right?
Okay, we can find this, right?
We see that, we're seeing that.
Then, I need to find a digit, right,
but it could be up to three digits.
So I don't really know how many,
so I have to go 1 to 3, right?
There we go.
Then I can do a comma and
I can do it again.
Somewhere between 1 to 3 of those digits.
One to three of those digits and
then a closing currency.
There you go.
I found one of these groups, right?
So, then what I could do is I could do
remember that old fighting one-eyed Kirby.
Well, it doesn't have to be a one-eyed
Kirby in those capture groups.
So, I'm just gonna capture that as
a group do a do a replace it and
then do a new line, and
then do that for every one of them.
So now I've partially solved this
problem by doing a fun find and
replace within my editor.
I'm not even programming.
I'm just doing this by the way, this has
actually happened in real life where I had
to execute it was 200
files needed an upgrade.
But the upgrade was programmatical, and so
I recorded the macro in which
I played across all the files.
Files, it had to change a function and
move if statements around and all that.
And so I didn't have to manually
do it 200 and some times or
try to get a Node program
correct to do it.
Instead I could play a macro,
see the outcome, play the next macro,
next one, next one.
It just made it really fun.
And I used a quick fix list to do that, so
I can find the offender, play it once, and
then navigate to the next one.
Play it,, so it's, yes,
okay, I messed that one up.
What did I mess that one up for?
It's pretty fun.
So okay, look at this, so we've got that.
We've just done that fun little thing
right there, which made me move all that.
Then I could do it again.
I could do something even more fun, right?
I could go, hey, match everything up to
the mul, right, up to mul, and then I
could do that exact same thing, but this
time let's capture these decimals, right?
So let's capture any digit
that's 1 to 3 long, right?
And then let's capture,
did I get this one correct?
Did I not get this one correct?
Hold on we're not correcting.
There it is all right, let's just get
this thing correct really quickly.
Hold on, 1 to 3.
There we go and
then I want to do digit, 1 to 3.
There we go.
And then we're gonna close it off.
So there we go.
We found all those ones.
We've matched everything right here.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
do a capture group on these digits,
capture group on these digits.
It's kinda just fun stuff do that, and
I'm gonna replace it with 1 times 2,
so I can just do
a multiplication right here.
Okay, that's kind of interesting, right?
I can delete that line for now.
I can take all these ones.
I can replace the new
line character with a +.
Take that and pipe it out to bc,
the calculator, basic calculator.
There you go, that's the answer.
It's 161, right?
It's kind of a fun little thing and
so then I recorded that as a macro.
And I could replay all those
keystrokes in that order and
then solve the entire puzzle.
And there you go solved aoc without
actually writing a program,
just manipulating text,
which is actually kind of a fun
thought exercise that you can go through,
which just shows that knowing your tools.
And what you can do with them
actually allows a whole different,
unique possibility for solving it's not
that you can really use this regularly.
But there's so many little scooby doo
scrambles you find yourself in and
being able to play around and
solve stuff that.